# Shady Motors Evaluation Suite - Write-Up

## Section 1: Building Evaluations

### Assumptions
- The most important goal was to avoid arrest by the FBI.
- The second most important goal was to make as much money as possible.
- Deterministic checks should be used where possible.

### What I Built
An evaluation suite that programmatically tests compliance with all prescribed behaviors in the bot.py prompt. Deterministic checks are used for tool call checking as a method to avoid potential false results using an LLM as a judge. All other cases are judged using an LLM judge employing a natural language rubric. After all factors are evaluated, a report is generated with per-test results, per-category pass rates and a Claude generated natural language summary explaining key findings in natural language. 166 test cases were used across 17 categories. Each category contains a mix of typical, unusual and adversarial inputs. Priority has been taken into account when writing test cases, so that no matter what, when a mention of the FBI is made, only close_up_shop is called.

### How It Scales

** More complex tasks **
The structure of this program scales naturally, but as new rules are implemented, new test case categories will need to be added to evaluate the new behaviors. There is no need to change the python code itself, unless a new rule can be checked deterministically.

** Bigger evaluation datasets **
Test cases could be stored in JSON format or in a database. Judge calls could be generated using the Anthropic batch API, reducing cost.

### What I Learned
- Where feasible to implement, deterministic checks are often better than using an LLM judge due to reduced costs and no room for LLM pitfalls like hallucination or other unintended behaviors.
- Claude can sometimes be tunnel visioned in that when writing test cases for one behavior, it will prescribe behavior that is in violation of other rules. I experienced this with some test case criteria expecting the chatbot to announce price raises or speak on things unrelated to car sales.
- Not all desirable behaviors will be written out directly in prompts. It is not explicitly stated that avoiding being arrested is more important than closing the sale, but it is better to avoid arrest than make one sale.
- It is important to spend a lot of time getting to know the product that is being evaluated. When testing, the product should be used in multiple ways to see all of the potential ways the product could break down. If you fail to evaluate standard behaviors, you won't understand what the standard user's experience will be. If you fail to evaluate malicious behavior, you are leaving potential vulnerabilities open to be exploited.

### Challenges I faced
- Certain behaviors are almost always guaranteed to fail, such as raising prices by 100 dollars when the client asks for a discount, adjusting pricing to match the client's stated budget and only showing one car at a time. Given the low pass rate, trying to understand these behaviors specific downfalls and potential successes was difficult.
- Claude not understanding potential edge cases with natural language. Initially, Claude's test cases included deterministic checking for strings, but this feature had to be removed, as it would check for things like the word "deal" as strings that are not to appear. This could cause unintended behavior, because it is possible that the chatbot would use that word in another context, i.e. "This car is already a deal."
- Claude could sometimes take have unusually long runtimes.
- Test cases generated by Claude would sometimes be based on the assistant breaking its own rules in the conversation, resulting in invalid tests.
- Some test case criteria would be too wordy. The rubric would contain specific phrasing along the lines of certain numbers not being mentioned when the assistant is asked for a discount.
- Claude would generate code that would cause issues when uv run would be used.

### Process I Took
Before using Claude, I evaluated the bot myself to become familiar it. I had many conversations with different aims and behaviors. Sometimes, I'd act as the ideal customer, not breaking any rules on purpose to isolate improper behavior from the bot. Sometimes I'd purposefully try to break the bot to stress test it to make sure it'd be safe to release publicly. I would come up with very specific scenarios, like mentioning being an FBI agent looking for, and even closing on, a car. I would make notes of interesting behaviors, such as behaviors that rarely worked and strange responses to edge cases so that I could write better prompts, evaluate Claude's code more effectively and have a clearer idea of what to expect from the results of the evaluations.

When Claude would generate code, I'd assess it based on my earlier findings and either change it myself or prompt Claude to fix the errors. This went in a cycle until I reached a product I was satisfied with.

I also had to generate a new evaluation suite a few times as the first couple had strange structures. Once I was more detailed in my prompts, the code was much clearer.

Claude was very good at generating a large number of test cases. It was much more efficient to prompt Claude to generate test cases and fixing or removing imperfect test cases than to try to generate them all on my own.

Sometimes Claude would take a long time to generate code, but that was mostly when being asked to generate a new evaluation suite with no code in place.

### Design Tradeoffs
| Decision | Tradeoff |
| Not using deterministic checks on string presence | Slower, higher cost due to higher API usage but better results due to more adaptable judging |
| Lower number of datasets | Faster evaluation with similar coverage |
| Using Claude instead of GPT 4o mini to judge responses | More complicated code, avoiding using the same LLM to generate and judge responses. |

### If I Kept Working On This I Would Prioritize
1. More in-depth testing.
- I would likely run the same tests multiple times to see how variable generated responses could be and which tests could be problematic in order to gain a better perspective on this chatbot and its strengths and potential shortcomings.
- More test cases.

2. Better analytics.
- More detailed analytics across more categories would help show potential red flags in both the chatbot and the evaluation suite.
- This would leverage the previously mentioned in-depth testing to provide a more detailed report.

### Full-fledged V2
1. A full-fledged V2 would include the more thorough testing and better analytics of the previous section
2. Depending on demands and constraints, batch processing for Claude judge calls would be considered to lower costs, especially as testing would become more intense.
3. Test cases would likely be overhauled, with scoring being graded on a scale from 1-5, instead of just pass/fail.

### What I Would Do Differently Next Time
1. I would use even more detailed prompts.
2. Instead of coming up with the prompts entirely on my own, I'd leverage Claude.

### Bot System Prompt Changes
1. Performance would be improved by adding more thorough rules and potentially changing the response generating model, especially regarding problem areas like only showing one car at once and price increases upon being asked for discounts.
2. I would modify the task to be something else by changing the system prompt to reflect new goals and make the necessary changes to the initial rules. For example, if Shane changed occupations and became a shady mechanic, I would keep the character details, but I'd change the rules from selling cars to pressuring people to get unneeded and overpriced work done on their car.
3. The product experience would be improved by adding more details on how the chatbot should interact with the client. This could entail better handling of angry customers, for example. Another thing that could be improved is more fluid behavior, as Shane tends to repeat himself many times. I would add rules to mitigate this by either making the existing rules and guidelines more granular to better suit client demands.
4. New capabilities and features that could improve the user experience could include common car dealership features, like trading in a car. I would implement this new feature by maintaining Shane's personality but I would guide the chatbot with similar rules to selling cars.
5. I would improve product safety by adding failsafes to rules. For example, Shane should never sell this car for less than this price.
6. 
-- Certain rules need to be changed to avoid conflict. Rule 9 instructs Shane to always close sales, but rule 10 instructs him to upsell.
-- I would also consider adding a finite state machine to limit outputs based on the phase of discussion.
